Mrogers power bi (#532)
osisoft/OCS-Docs: content/visualize-data/power-bi-connector.md

---
uid: PowerBI
---

# The OSIsoft Cloud Services Power BI Connector

> The OCS Power BI Connector retrieves data views from OSIsoft Cloud Services (OCS) and makes them available in Microsoft Power BI for advanced data visualizations and analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OCS Power BI Connector retrieves data views from OSIsoft Cloud Services (OCS) and makes them available in Microsoft Power BI for advanced data visualization and analysis.
```

Author: Accepted.

> To utilize the OSIsoft Cloud Services data connector, complete the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the OSIsoft Cloud Services data connector, complete the following steps:
```

Author: Accepted change.

> 1.	From the Sales Force portal, download the OCSPowerBIConnector.exe file.

Reviewer: Is it possible to have a direct link? If not, a more detailed location maybe?

Author: The SalesForce link is not available yet, as the exe file will not be posted until the 23rd when this goes to Lighthouse.  Good call however; I will add the link in as soon as it's available.

> 2.	Execute the OCSPowerBIConnector.exe file to run the Setup wizard for the OSIsoft Cloud Services Power BI Connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.	To run the Setup wizard for the OSIsoft Cloud Services Power BI Connector, execute the OCSPowerBIConnector.exe file
```

Author: Accepted.

> 3.	In Microsoft Power BI, type OSI in the entry field of the **Get Data** window. The **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** displays in the **All** pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.	In Microsoft Power BI, in the entry field of the **Get Data** window, type *OSI* . The **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** displays in the **All** pane.
```

Author: Accepted.

> 4.	In the **OCS Power BI Data Connector** dialog, select the OCS tenant (currently tenant Id only) and namespace whose data views you want to access, and click **OK**. The OSIsoft Cloud Services sign-in dialog displays if you have not already signed into OCS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.	In the **OCS Power BI Data Connector** dialog, select the OCS tenant (currently tenant Id only) and namespace whose data views you want to access, and then click **OK**. The OSIsoft Cloud Services sign-in dialog displays if you have not already signed into OCS.
```

Author: Accepted.

5.	If you have not already signed into OCS, click **Sign in as different user** and complete the OCS user authentication process. The **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** sign-in dialog displays again after you have completed the OCS user authentication process.

> 6.	Click **Connect** in the **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** sign-in dialog. The **Navigator** pane displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6.	In the **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** sign-in dialog, click **Connect** . The **Navigator** pane displays.
```

Author: Accepted.

> 7.	Select one or more data views from the **Navigator** pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7.	From the **Navigator** pane, select one or more data views .
```

> 8.	Specify a Start Index, End Index, and Interval for each of the selected data views, or accept the default values. Click **Apply** to apply the values you have specified to the selected data views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8.	Specify a Start Index, End Index, and Interval for each of the selected data views, or accept the default values. To apply the values you have specified to the selected data views, click **Apply** 
```

> 9.	Click **Load** at the bottom of the **Navigator** pane to load the selected data view data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9.	To load the selected data view data, click **Load** at the bottom of the **Navigator** pane .
```

> 10.	Use the Microsoft Power BI **Visualizations** pane to select the visualizations you want to create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10.	To select the visualizations you want to create, use the Microsoft Power BI **Visualizations** pane .
```

6. In the **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** window, enter the OCS tenant and namespace for the data views you want to access, and then click **OK**. The OSIsoft Cloud Services sign-in window displays if you have not already signed into OCS.
7. If you have not already signed into OCS, click **Sign in as different user** and complete the OCS user authentication process. The **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** sign-in window displays again after you have signed in to OCS.
8. In the **OSIsoft Cloud Services Data Views** sign-in window, click **Connect**. The **Navigator** pane displays.
9. In the **Navigator** pane, click the box for each data view you want to work with in Power BI.

![Select Data Views](images/click-data-view-box.png)

10. For each of the selected data views, specify a Start Index, End Index, and Interval. To apply the values you have specified for the selected data views, click **Apply**.

    **Note**: If one of the selected data views has default values defined for Start Index, End Index, and Interval, enter new values or click **Apply** to accept the defaults.

11. To load the selected data view data, click **Load** at the bottom of the **Navigator** pane.

> 12. To select the visualizations you want to create, use the Microsoft Power BI **Visualizations** pane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12. To select the visualizations to create, use the Microsoft Power BI **Visualizations** pane.
```
If this is now Power BI functionality, I would say something like "The data view data is now available in the Microsoft Power BI **Visualizations** pane." as a final information piece in step 11. Otherwise this step is lacking the information.

>     **Note**: Click the **Transform data** button in the Power BI menu to review and edit data types for a selected data view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    **Note**: If you need to review or edit data types for a selected data view, click **Transform data** in the Power BI menu.
```
Is this solely Power BI functionality, if so can it be removed? At some point in this process, the data is in Power BI and we no longer need to document anything.
